If we want this as a scaleable home solution, with limitless amout of customers/users. We can limit the amount of cloud storage needed.
Rather than each object updating the webservice, the main controller can hold the state of the peripherals. 
The peripherals can push an update to the controller if they experience any changes in state and the controller can send commands to the peripherals.

Where flow comes in:
Flow can facilliate communication between the user interactable devices (android/IOS apps, touchscreen board, linux PC) and the controller board.
The house state really doesn't even need to ever touch the cloud. As long as the main controller is online, the state can be accessed and controlled by the user, 
using their interactive device from anywhere with an internet connection.

What will the cloud be used for?

Flow cloud allows the distintion between users/devices and users who own devices. Therefore users can have settings saved on the flowcloud which will be automatically used if they add new hardware (new controller etc)
replaceing a part of the hardware will be work as if nothing happened. 
To extend this, there can also be manufacturer and licencee settings which are stored on the cloud and used as defaults when the user does not have settings customised.  
What settings these are exactly is to be determianed.

HomeController (ci40):
Sits and waits for messages be they heartbeats, commands or data. 
Stores the state of the peripherals attached to it. 
Reacts to commands from the UI device/users interactive device. Commands such as turn on light x or turn off light y. 
reacts to data coming from peripherals: the peripheral's new state e.g. I am now ON, or I am overheating. 
reacts to heartbeats or lack thereof coming from peripherals. Lack of heartbeat suggests something has gone wrong. A new unrecognised heartbeat might be a new peripheral, act accordingly

Sends commands to peripherals, say the user wants a certain temp in a certain room, if the tempurature sensor detects the wrong tempurature, the board should send commands to the appropiate heating or cooling peripheral
Maybe tracking homeowner movement, turn on and off lights and or heating etc depending on where movement is detected

Communication with peripherals can be via many ways, zigbee, 6lowpan or wifi/internet (using flow). these communication protocols will be abstracted so the controller logic just gets the same inputs and can send the same
format outputs regardless of the kind of communication is used.


Peripherals:
Sit and wait for commands from the controller.
Knows its state and recognises when it changes.
push change notifications to the controller. 


User interactable device:
graphical representation of the house state. Any other information needed. 
Control the all the peripherals via appropiate commands (lights: on/off, heaters: temp setting, etc).
Modify users global flow settings.
when a new device is detected, user sets it up via this (mainly security, only start working with peripherals the user allows the system to work with) 
Flow means the house can be controlled from anywhere with an internet connection


Example global/house settings: 
heating times, 
light times, 
time periods to notify motion detection, 
perfered tempurature, 
the house layout/roomID's 

internal logic:
House can be split up into rooms each with an ID (and human readable name), when a new peripheral is added: user sets the room it is in, along with any other relevant info.
 
